---
# Autogenerated by Obsidian Dictionary Plugin
aliases: ["Bogey"]
---

# Bogey

## Pronunciation

- /bəʊɡi/
- /boʊɡi/

## Meanings

### Noun
[SPECTER](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/specter), [PHANTOM](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/phantom)
One who robs others in a lawless area, especially as part of a group.

---

An outlaw.

---

One who cheats others.

---

An enemy aircraft.

---

A runner who covertly joins a race without having registered as a participant.

### Noun

An obnoxious, selfish and overbearing person; an attention hog.

### Noun

(often capitalized, usually with definite article) The Devil.

---

A ghost, goblin, or other hostile supernatural creature.

---

A bugbear: any terrifying thing.

---

A standard of performance set up as a mark to be aimed at in competition.

---

An unidentified aircraft, especially as observed as a spot on a radar screen and suspected to be hostile.

---

A score of one over par on a hole.

### Verb

To make a bogey.

### Noun

A bog-standard (representative) specimen taken from the center of production.

### Noun

A swim or bathe; a bath.

### Noun

One of two sets of wheels under a locomotive or railcar; the structure with axles and wheels under a locomotive, railcar, or semi.

---

(Indian English, dated in UK) A railway carriage.

---

A toy similar to a violin bow, consisting of a wooden stick with notches along one or more sides or edges to produce a rattly noise when stroked against a hard edge, eg, the lip of container.

### Noun

A piece of solid or semisolid mucus in or removed from a nostril.

---

Something suggestive of this material.

---

A thing; especially a problematic or difficult thing.

### Noun

(mildly derogatory) A bodyboarder.

> Watch the local boogers charge it!




bogey