---
# Autogenerated by Obsidian Dictionary Plugin
aliases: ["Gutters"]
---

# Gutters

## Pronunciation



## Meanings

### Noun

A prepared channel in a surface, especially at the side of a road adjacent to a curb, intended for the drainage of water.

---

A ditch along the side of a road.

---

A duct or channel beneath the eaves of a building to carry rain water; eavestrough.

> The gutters must be cleared of leaves a few times a year.

---

A groove down the sides of a bowling lane.

---

A large groove (commonly behind animals) in a barn used for the collection and removal of animal excrement.

---

Any narrow channel or groove, such as one formed by erosion in the vent of a gun from repeated firing.

---

A space between printed columns of text.

---

One of a number of pieces of wood or metal, grooved in the centre, used to separate the pages of type in a form.

---

An unprinted space between rows of stamps.

---

A drainage channel.

---

The notional locus of things, acts, or events which are distasteful, ill bred or morally questionable.

---

A low, vulgar state.

> Get your mind out of the gutter.

---

The spaces between comic book panels

### Verb

To flow or stream; to form gutters.

---

(of a candle) To melt away by having the molten wax run down along the side of the candle.

---

(of a small flame) To flicker as if about to be extinguished.

---

To send (a bowling ball) into the gutter, not hitting any pins.

---

To supply with a gutter or gutters.

---

To cut or form into small longitudinal hollows; to channel.

### Noun

One who or that which guts.




gutters