---
# Autogenerated by Obsidian Dictionary Plugin
aliases: ["Lodge"]
---

# Lodge

## Pronunciation

- /lɒdʒ/
- <details><summary>/lɑdʒ/</summary><audio controls><source src="https://api.dictionaryapi.dev/media/pronunciations/en/lodge-us.mp3"></audio></details>

## Meanings

### Noun

A building for recreational use such as a hunting lodge or a summer cabin.

---

Short for porter's lodge: a building or room near the entrance of an estate or building, especially as a college mailroom.

---

A local chapter of some fraternities, such as freemasons.

---

A local chapter of a trade union.

---

A rural hotel or resort, an inn.

---

A beaver's shelter constructed on a pond or lake.

---

A den or cave.

---

The chamber of an abbot, prior, or head of a college.

---

The space at the mouth of a level next to the shaft, widened to permit wagons to pass, or ore to be deposited for hoisting; called also platt.

---

A collection of objects lodged together.

---

An indigenous American home, such as tipi or wigwam. By extension, the people who live in one such home; a household.

> The tribe consists of about two hundred lodges, that is, of about a thousand individuals.

### Verb

To be firmly fixed in a specified position.

> I've got some spinach lodged between my teeth.

---

To stay in a boarding-house, paying rent to the resident landlord or landlady.

> The detective Sherlock Holmes lodged in Baker Street.

---

To stay in any place or shelter.

---

To drive (an animal) to covert.

---

To supply with a room or place to sleep in for a time.

---

To put money, jewellery, or other valuables for safety.

---

To place (a statement, etc.) with the proper authorities (such as courts, etc.).

---

To become flattened, as grass or grain, when overgrown or beaten down by the wind.

> The heavy rain caused the wheat to lodge.

---

To cause to flatten, as grass or grain.




lodge