---
# Autogenerated by Obsidian Dictionary Plugin
aliases: ["Offices"]
---

# Offices

## Pronunciation

- /ˈɑfɪsɪz/
- /ˈɒfɪsɪz/
- <details><summary>/ˈɔfɪsɪz/</summary><audio controls><source src="https://api.dictionaryapi.dev/media/pronunciations/en/offices-us.mp3"></audio></details>

## Meanings

### Noun

A ceremonial duty or service, particularly:

---

A position of responsibility.

> When the office of Secretary of State is vacant, its duties fall upon an official within the department.

---

Official position, particularly high employment within government; tenure in such a position.

> She held office as secretary of state until she left office to run for office.

---

An official or group of officials; a personification of officeholders.

---

A duty, particularly owing to one's position or station; a charge, trust, or role; moral duty.

---

The performance of a duty; an instance of performing a duty.

---

Function: anything typically done by or expected of something.

---

A bodily function, urination and defecation; an act of urination or defecation.

---

(now usually in plural) A service, a kindness.

---

Inside information.

---

A room, set of rooms, or building used for non-manual work, particularly:

> The office of the Secretary of State is cleaned when it is vacant.

---

The staff of such places.

> The whole office was there... well, except you, of course.

---

(in large organizations) The administrative departments housed in such places, particularly:

> He's from our public relations office.

---

(now in the plural) The parts of a house or estate devoted to manual work and storage, as the kitchen, scullery, laundry, stables, etc., particularly a house or estate's facilities for urination and defecation: outhouses or lavatories.

---

Clipping of inquest of office: an inquest undertaken on occasions when the Crown claimed the right of possession to land or property.

---

A piece of land used for hunting; the area of land overseen by a gamekeeper.

---

A hangout: a place where one is normally found.

---

A plane's cockpit, particularly an observer's cockpit.

---

A collection of business software typically including a word processor and spreadsheet and slideshow programs.

### Verb

To provide (someone) with an office.

---

To have an office.


