---
# Autogenerated by Obsidian Dictionary Plugin
aliases: ["Scrape"]
---

# Scrape

## Pronunciation

- <details><summary>/skɹeɪp/</summary><audio controls><source src="https://api.dictionaryapi.dev/media/pronunciations/en/scrape-us.mp3"></audio></details>

## Meanings

### Noun

A broad, shallow injury left by scraping (rather than a cut or a scratch).

> He fell on the sidewalk and got a scrape on his knee.

---

A fight, especially a fistfight without weapons.

> He got in a scrape with the school bully.

---

An awkward set of circumstances.

> I'm in a bit of a scrape — I've no money to buy my wife a birthday present.

---

A D and C or abortion; or, a miscarriage.

---

A shallow depression used by ground birds as a nest; a nest scrape.

---

A shallow pit dug as a hideout.

### Verb

To draw (an object, especially a sharp or angular one), along (something) while exerting pressure.

> Her fingernails scraped across the blackboard.

---

To remove (something) by drawing an object along in this manner.

> Scrape the chewing gum off with a knife.

---

To injure or damage by rubbing across a surface.

> She tripped on a rock and scraped her knee.

---

To barely manage to achieve.

> I scraped a pass in the exam.

---

To collect or gather, especially without regard to the quality of what is chosen.

> Just use whatever you can scrape together.

---

To extract data by automated means from a format not intended to be machine-readable, such as a screenshot or a formatted web page.

---

To occupy oneself with getting laboriously.

> He scraped and saved until he became rich.

---

To play awkwardly and inharmoniously on a violin or similar instrument.

---

To draw back the right foot along the ground or floor when making a bow.

---

To express disapprobation of (a play, etc.) or to silence (a speaker) by drawing the feet back and forth upon the floor; usually with down.




scrape