---
# Autogenerated by Obsidian Dictionary Plugin
aliases: ["Stage"]
---

# Stage

## Pronunciation

- <details><summary>/steɪd͡ʒ/</summary><audio controls><source src="https://api.dictionaryapi.dev/media/pronunciations/en/stage-uk.mp3"></audio></details>
- <details><summary>/steɪd͡ʒ/</summary><audio controls><source src="https://api.dictionaryapi.dev/media/pronunciations/en/stage-us.mp3"></audio></details>

## Meanings

### Noun

A phase.

> Completion of an identifiable stage of maintenance such as removing an aircraft engine for repair or storage.

---

A platform; a surface, generally elevated, upon which show performances or other public events are given.

> The band returned to the stage to play an encore.

---

A floor or storey of a house.

---

A floor elevated for the convenience of mechanical work, etc.; scaffolding; staging.

---

A platform, often floating, serving as a kind of wharf.

---

A stagecoach, an enclosed horsedrawn carriage used to carry passengers.

> The stage pulled into town carrying the payroll for the mill and three ladies.

---

A place of rest on a regularly travelled road; a station; a place appointed for a relay of horses.

---

A degree of advancement in a journey; one of several portions into which a road or course is marked off; the distance between two places of rest on a road.

> a stage of ten miles

---

The number of an electronic circuit’s block, such as a filter, an amplifier, etc.

> a 3-stage cascade of a 2nd-order bandpass Butterworth filter

---

The place on a microscope where the slide is located for viewing.

> He placed the slide on the stage.

---

A level; one of the sequential areas making up the game.

> How do you get past the flying creatures in the third stage?

level

---

A place where anything is publicly exhibited, or a remarkable affair occurs; the scene.

---

The succession of rock strata laid down in a single age on the geologic time scale.

### Verb

To produce on a stage, to perform a play.

> The local theater group will stage "Pride and Prejudice".

---

To demonstrate in a deceptive manner.

> The salesman's demonstration of the new cleanser was staged to make it appear highly effective.

---

To orchestrate; to carry out.
to arrange or write a piece of music so that it can be played by an orchestra
> A protest will be staged in the public square on Monday.

---

To place in position to prepare for use.

> We staged the cars to be ready for the start, then waited for the starter to drop the flag.

---

To determine what stage (a disease, etc.) has progressed to




staged